I used to be considered somewhat of a “baby back ribs expert” in my family. Back in high school I had an obsession with barbecue baby back ribs. I didn’t have a DIY smoker or anything like that. Nope, I just had my mom’s trusty oven (the one that locked the turkey in it on Thanksgiving, but that’s a story for another day) and store-bought barbecue sauce. Still it was enough to impress my family and that was good enough for me.




I can’t remember the last time I bought jarred barbecue sauce. It was probably back in high school. These days I lean more towards marinades instead of sauces — one of my favourite marinades is Korean kalbi. Kalbi is sweet, savoury and addictive. It’s usually used with cross-cut beef short ribs, but it tastes pretty good with pretty much any grilled meat and especially good with baby back ribs.



Speaking of BABIES, I’m excitedly awaiting my new baby nephew’s arrival. My sister-in-law is in labour as I type and I’m wishing her a speedy and smooth labour. I’m definitely making her some celebratory ribs when she’s up for it. Congrats Kevin, Kim and Isaac! I love you guys SO MUCH!



KALBI BABY BACK RIBS RECIPE
makes 1 rack of ribs

1 RACK OF BABY BACK RIBS
1/2 CUP SOY SAUCE
1/4 CUP BROWN SUGAR
1/2 PEAR, MINCED WITH JUICES OR FINELY GRATED
2 TABLESPOONS SESAME OIL
2 TABLESPOONS RICE VINEGAR
8 CLOVES GARLIC, MINCED
1 ONION, MINCED OR FINELY GRATED
1/4 CUP HONEY
FINISH WITH:

SLICED GREEN ONIONS
TOASTED SESAME SEEDS
TOASTED SESAME OIL
If there’s a thin membrane on the back of your ribs (when the ribs are placed meaty side down) loosen and remove. Place the ribs in a deep baking dish, meat-side down. Combine the soy sauce, brown sugar, pear, sesame oil, rice vinegar, garlic and onion in a small bowl. Pour over the ribs making sure all surfaces are coated. Marinate for at least 4 hours or overnight.

When ready to cook, preheat the oven to 325°F. Remove the ribs from the marinade (reserve the marinade) and wrap the ribs (again, meat side down) tightly in foil. Place the ribs on a deep baking sheet and bake for 2 and a half to 3 hours. When the ribs are done, they should be fork tender.

Fifteen minutes before the ribs are done cooking, take the reserved marinade and add the honey. Bring to a boil over high heat and then turn down and reduce until the sauce is sticky and slightly thick. Remove the ribs from the oven and carefully unwrap the foil. Carefully place the ribs back onto the baking sheet (they should be very tender so be careful when moving them) and brush on some of the reduced marinade.

Turn the oven to broil and broil until a deep brown, 3-5 minutes. Remove from the oven, flip so the ribs are meat-side up and brush on the marinade. Broil until deep brown, about 3-5 minutes. Keep an eye on the ribs as they are broiling as oven temperatures vary. Remove from the oven, slice and garnish with sliced green onions, toasted sesame seeds and a drizzle of toasted sesame oil. Enjoy!
